Feat(Mesh): Migrate mesh multi-tenancy page from Kuma to Kong Mesh docs (#5009)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/mesh/mesh-multi-tenancy.md

---
title: 'Configuring your mesh and multi-tenancy'
description: 'Learn how to create and configure isolated service meshes using the Mesh resource in {{site.mesh_product_name}}, supporting multi-tenancy and gradual adoption.'
content_type: reference
layout: reference
products:
  - mesh
breadcrumbs:
  - /mesh/

min_version:
  mesh: '2.6'

tags:
  - service-mesh

related_resources:
  - text: Data plane proxy
    url: '/mesh/data-plane-proxy/'

>   - text: Mesh Observability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - text: Mesh observability
```

    url: '/mesh/observability/'
  - text: Multi-zone deployment
    url: '/mesh/mesh-multizone-service-deployment/'
  - text: Install {{site.mesh_product_name}}
    url: /mesh/#install-kong-mesh
---

The `Mesh` resource lets you create multiple isolated service meshes within the same {{site.mesh_product_name}} cluster, allowing you to operate in environments that require more than one mesh for security, segmentation, or governance reasons.

You can create a mesh per line of business, per team, per application, or per environment. Multiple meshes allow organizations to adopt a service mesh gradually without requiring all teams to coordinate, and provide an extra layer of security and segmentation. For example, policies applied to one mesh don't affect other meshes.

`Mesh` is the parent resource of every other resource in {{site.mesh_product_name}}, including:

* [Data plane proxies](/mesh/data-plane-proxy/)
* [Policies](/mesh/policies/)

> In order to use {{site.mesh_product_name}}, at least one mesh must exist, and there is no limit to the number of meshes that can be created. When a data plane proxy connects to the control plane (`kuma-cp`), it specifies which `Mesh` resource it belongs to. A data plane proxy can only belong to one mesh at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use {{site.mesh_product_name}}, at least one mesh must exist. There is no limit to the number of meshes that can be created.

When a data plane proxy connects to the control plane (`kuma-cp`), it specifies which `Mesh` resource it belongs to. A data plane proxy can only belong to one mesh at a time.
```

{:.info}
> When starting a new {{site.mesh_product_name}} cluster from scratch, a `default` mesh is created automatically.

In addition to creating virtual service meshes, the `Mesh` resource is also used for:

> * [Mutual TLS](/mesh/policies/mutual-tls/), to secure and encrypt our service traffic and assign an identity to the data plane proxies within the mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Mutual TLS](/mesh/policies/mutual-tls/), to secure and encrypt service traffic and assign an identity to the data plane proxies within the mesh.
```

> * [Zone egress](/mesh/zone-egress/), to define whether `ZoneEgress` should be used for cross zone and external service communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Zone egress](/mesh/zone-egress/), to define whether `ZoneEgress` should be used for cross-zone and external service communication.
```

* [Non-mesh traffic](/mesh/policies/meshpassthrough/), to define whether `passthrough` mode should be used for the non-mesh traffic.

> To support cross-mesh communication an intermediate API Gateway must be used. For more information, see [Built-in gateways in {{site.mesh_product_name}}](/mesh/built-in-gateway/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need cross-mesh communication, you must use an intermediary API Gateway. For more information, see [Built-in gateways in {{site.mesh_product_name}}](/mesh/built-in-gateway/).
```
I think this is supposed to be "intermediary", "intermediate" doesn't make sense to me here.

## Creating a mesh

To create a `Mesh` resource, you only need to specify a name:

{% navtabs "environment" %}
{% navtab "Kubernetes" %}

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: default
```

Apply the configuration with `kubectl apply -f [..]`.
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "Universal" %}

```yaml
type: Mesh
name: default
```

Apply the configuration with `kumactl apply -f [..]` or via the [HTTP API](/mesh/interact-with-control-plane/).
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

## Creating resources in a mesh

When creating other resources, you can add them to the mesh in the following ways.

### Data plane proxies

When starting a data plane proxy, specify which mesh it belongs to:

{% navtabs "environment" %}
{% navtab "Kubernetes" %}
Use the `kuma.io/mesh` annotation in a `Deployment`:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: example-app
  namespace: kuma-example
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:

>         # indicate to {{site.mesh_product_name}} what is the Mesh that the data plane proxy belongs to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # indicates to {{site.mesh_product_name}} which Mesh the data plane proxy belongs to
```

        kuma.io/mesh: default
```

A `Mesh` resource can span multiple Kubernetes namespaces. Any {{site.mesh_product_name}} resource in the cluster which
specifies a particular mesh will be part of that mesh.

{:.warning}
> {% new_in 2.13 %}
> **Namespace-mesh constraint** 
> 
> A single Kubernetes namespace can't contain Pods in multiple meshes. This limitation exists because [`Workload`](/mesh/data-plane-kubernetes/) resources are mesh-scoped and generated from the `app.kubernetes.io/name` label, which can cause resource collisions when the same workload name is used across different meshes in the same namespace.
>
> When {{site.mesh_product_name}} detects multiple meshes in a single namespace, it:
>
> * Emits a Kubernetes warning event on the namespace
> * Skips `Workload` resource generation for affected workloads
> * Logs an error message
>

> > To prevent this configuration issue proactively, you can enable the runtime flag [`runtime.kubernetes.disallowMultipleMeshesPerNamespace`](/mesh/reference/kuma-cp/). When enabled, the admission webhook rejects Pod creation or updates if the namespace already contains data planes in a different mesh.

Reviewer: > updates if the namespace already contains data planes in a different mesh

What does it update? Does this mean it logs a warning/error?

> > To prevent this configuration issue proactively, you can enable the runtime flag [`runtime.kubernetes.disallowMultipleMeshesPerNamespace`](/mesh/reference/kuma-cp/). When enabled, the admission webhook rejects Pod creation or updates if the namespace already contains data planes in a different mesh.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> To prevent this configuration issue proactively, you can enable the runtime flag [`runtime.kubernetes.disallowMultipleMeshesPerNamespace`](/mesh/reference/kuma-cp/). When enabled, the admission webhook rejects Pod creation and Pod updates if the namespace already contains data planes in a different mesh.
```

>
> We recommend keeping all pods in a single namespace within the same mesh.

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "Universal" %}

Use the `-m` or `--mesh` argument when running `kuma-dp`:

```sh
kuma-dp run \
  --name=backend-1 \
  --mesh=default \
  --cp-address=https://127.0.0.1:5678 \
  --dataplane-token-file=/tmp/kuma-dp-backend-1-token
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

You can control which data plane proxies are allowed to join the mesh using [mesh constraints](/mesh/configure-data-plane-proxy-membership/).

### Policies

When creating new [policies](/mesh/policies-introduction/), you must also specify which mesh they belong to:

{% navtabs "environment" %}
{% navtab "Kubernetes" %}
Use the `kuma.io/mesh` label:

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshHTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: route-1
  namespace: {{site.mesh_namespace}}
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default
```

{{site.mesh_product_name}} consumes all policies on the cluster and joins each to an individual mesh, based on this label.
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "Universal" %}
Use the `mesh` property:

```yaml
type: MeshHTTPRoute
name: route-1
mesh: default
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

> ## Skipping default resource creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Default resources
```
I think this section is misnamed, and contains two concepts: the default policies and how to skip them.

> By default, to help users get started, {{site.mesh_product_name}} creates the following default policies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help users get started, {{site.mesh_product_name}} creates the following default policies:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MeshTimeout for all gateways
* MeshTimeout for all sidecar resources
* MeshRetry
* MeshCircuitBreaker
```
It took me a bit longer than I wanted to see what all is being added by default; a summary list like this would be nice.

        connectionTimeout: 5s
        idleTimeout: 1h
        http:
          requestTimeout: 15s
          streamIdleTimeout: 30m
  from:
    - targetRef:
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        connectionTimeout: 10s
        idleTimeout: 2h
        http:
          requestTimeout: 0s
          streamIdleTimeout: 1h
          maxStreamDuration: 0s
---
type: MeshRetry
mesh: default
name: mesh-retry-all-default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Mesh
  to:
    - targetRef:
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        tcp:
          maxConnectAttempt: 5
        http:
          numRetries: 5
          perTryTimeout: 16s
          backOff:
            baseInterval: 25ms
            maxInterval: 250ms
        grpc:
          numRetries: 5
          perTryTimeout: 16s
          backOff:
            baseInterval: 25ms
            maxInterval: 250ms
---
type: MeshCircuitBreaker
mesh: default
name: mesh-circuit-breaker-all-default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Mesh
  to:
    - targetRef:
        kind: Mesh
      default:
        connectionLimits:
          maxConnections: 1024
          maxPendingRequests: 1024
          maxRetries: 3
          maxRequests: 1024
```

{% endpolicy_yaml %}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Skipping default resource creation
```
